SQL is structured Query language
It is used for relational db
Primary ways to use SQl: query, insert, update and modify data
SQL statements are descriptive
really easy to understand
non-procedural language- can't write while application with it
Data sciencetist is end user and uses sql to retrive data from database
We will use sqllite- Sqlite is embeddable relational database management system. SQL is query language. ... Unlike other databases (like SQL Server and MySQL) SQLite does not support stored procedures. SQLite is file-based, unlike other databases, like SQL Server and MySQL which are server-based


Data Modeling:
Organise and Structure information into multiple related tables
Represents a business process and shows relatonship between business process.
It represents real world using data

Types of data models:
Relational: Conceptual Simplicity(Structural independence) provides ad hoc queries 
No SQl(Big data): Addressing Big Data problems, Based on schema-less key-value pair data model, best suited for large sparse data stores.
                  A mechanism for storage and retrieval of unstructured data models by means other than tabular relations in relational DB.


Relational Vs Transactional Model:
Relational: Easy Quering, Data manipulation in easy and intuitive way.
Transactional: Opeartional DB, - ex- claim for healthcare app. Data from transactional can be moved to relational to fetch useful information.

Data Model Building blocks:

Entity: Person, place, thing that it distinguishable, unique and distinct
Attribute: A characterstic of entity
Relationship: 1-1(manager of store), 1-many(customer with many invoices),many-many(student to class)

To undestand relationship we use ER Diagram:

ER Model is composed of entity types and specifies the relationships that can exist between instances of those entity types.
it:
  Shows relationship
  business process
  represenyted visually
  show links(primary keys)
  
 These are related by :
 Primary Key: Column(s) uniquely identify every row in table
 Foreign Key:one or more columns that can be used to identify a single row in a table
 
 To understand the relationships between these table we have below notations:
 Chen Notation: 
 Crow's Foot Notation:
 UML class diagram notation:
 (Please find ER Diagram Notation picture)
